[![Build Status](https://magnum.travis-ci.com/fmichonneau/impatiens.svg?token=xqSRhyrGhr2jsJqCUc5x)](https://magnum.travis-ci.com/fmichonneau/impatiens)

## Cryptic and not-so-cryptic species in the *Holothuria (Thymiosycia) impatiens* (Forsskall, 1775) (Echinodermata: Holothuroidea: Holothuriidae)



### Abstract

Identifying accurately species is critical for our understanding of patterns of
diversity and spe- ciation. However, for many organisms with simple and variable
morphological traits, the characters traditionally used by taxonomists to
identify species might lead to a considerable under appreciation of their
diversity. Recent advances in molecular-data based computational methods have
considerably improved our ability to identify and test species limits. Here, we
use an integrative approach to delineate species in a complex of sea
cucumbers. We used a three-step approach to show that “Holothuria impatiens”, a
common, shallow-water species, occurring across the Indo-Pacific, the Western
Atlantic and the Mediterranean Sea, targeted locally by fisheries, is a complex
of at least 13 species. (1) We used the Generalized Mixed Yule Coalescent (GMYC)
model to identify putative species without a priori hypotheses. In the process,
we also show that the number of putative species estimated with GMYC can be
affected considerably by the priors used to build the input tree. (2) We
assessed based on coloration patterns and distributional information, the most
relevant hypothesis. This approach allowed us to identify unambiguously 9
species. However, some of the lineages consistently assigned to belong to
different species using GMYC, are occurring in sympatry and are not
differentiated morphologically. (3) We used Bayes factors to compare competing
models of species assignment using the multispecies coalescent as implemented in
*BEAST. This approach allowed us to validate that the species identified using
GMYC were likely reproductively isolated. Estimates of the timing of
diversification also showed that these species diverged less than 2 Ma, which is
the fastest case of closely related species occurring in sympatry for a marine
metazoan. Our study demonstrates how clarifying species limits contribute to
refining our understanding of speciation.
